CMCL-1375: Input system integration documentation (#839)
Unity-Technologies/com.unity.cinemachine: com.unity.cinemachine/Documentation~/CinemachineInputAxisController.md

The Input Axis Controller not only maps inputs to the exposed axes, it also provides settings for each axis to tune the responsiveness with accel/decel and gain.

> If you like, you can also use CinemachineInputAxisController with your own scripts to drive input axes, for example in scripts that implement player motion. See the Cinemachine Sample scenes for examples of this.

Author: Fixed

| __Accel Time__ | The time it takes for the input value to accelerate to a larger value |
| __Decel Time__ | The time it takes for the input value to decelerate to a smaller value |

## Creating your own Input Axis Controller

In some cases you may need to create your own Input controller. This example shows how to control a Camera with a slider. It can be easily modified to be used with other objects.

```cs
using Unity.Cinemachine;
using System;
using UnityEngine;
using UnityEngine.UI;

[Serializable]
public class SliderReader : IInputAxisReader // Required to use InputAxisControllerBase.
{
    [SerializeField]
    Slider m_Slider; // Replace this with your own type.

>     public float GetValue(UnityEngine.Object context, int playerIndex, bool autoEnableInput, IInputAxisOwner.AxisDescriptor.Hints hint)

Author: Fixed in latest commit

    {
        if (m_Slider != null)
            return m_Slider.value; // The value returned will change the axis value.
        
        return 0;
    }
}

> public class SliderInputController : InputAxisControllerBase<SliderReader> {} //The component of your reader. Input InputAxisControllerBase handles the setup.

Author: Fixed in latest commits

#if UNITY_EDITOR

> [UnityEditor.CustomEditor(typeof(SliderInputController))] // Optional but recommended if want a nice inspector.

Author: Fixed in latest commit

public class SliderControllerEditor : Unity.Cinemachine.Editor.InputAxisControllerEditor {}
#endif
```

> ## CinemachineCamera and Input system components

Author: > I think from now on this should be a new page, with its own entry in the table of contents.

@JWalker0007 What do you think? 

> The title is confusing. I think it should be:
> Using the PlayerInput and PlayerInputManager components with Cinemachine

Fixed

> ## CinemachineCamera and Input system components

Author: Fixed in latest commits

We assume you already know how to setup `PlayerInput` and `PlayerInputManager`. All the documentation can be found on the Input System package documentation page and samples.

### Read from PlayerInput component

You will need a custom InputAxisController that receives axis from the PlayerInput component. Add this script to your CinemachineCamera and assign the `PlayerInput` field. The `behaviour` field must be set to `InvokeCSharpEvents`.

```cs
using UnityEngine;
using Unity.Cinemachine;
using System;
using UnityEngine.InputSystem;

class PlayerInputReceiver : InputAxisControllerBase<SimpleReader>
{
[SerializeField]
private PlayerInput m_PlayerInput;

    private void Awake()
    {
        m_PlayerInput.onActionTriggered += OnActionTriggered; // Call back when the PlayerInput receives an Input.
    }

    public void OnActionTriggered(InputAction.CallbackContext value)
    {
        foreach (var controller in Controllers)
        {
            controller.Input.SetValue(value.action); // Send the Input to all the controllers.
        }
    }
}

[Serializable]
class SimpleReader : IInputAxisReader
{

>     private Vector2 m_Value; // Assumes the action is a Vector2 for simplicity but can be changed for a float.

Author: Fixed in latest commit

    [SerializeField]
    private InputActionReference m_Input;
    
    public void SetValue(InputAction action)
    {
        if (m_Input!= null && m_Input.action.id == action.id)
            m_Value = action.ReadValue<Vector2>(); // Is the input referenced in the inspector matches the updated one update the value.
    }

    public float GetValue(UnityEngine.Object context, int playerIndex, bool autoEnableInput, IInputAxisOwner.AxisDescriptor.Hints hint)
    {
        if(hint == IInputAxisOwner.AxisDescriptor.Hints.X)
            return m_Value.x * 100;
        
        return m_Value.y * 100;
    }
}

#if UNITY_EDITOR
[UnityEditor.CustomEditor(typeof(PlayerInputReceiver))]
public class PlayerInputReceiverEditor : Unity.Cinemachine.Editor.InputAxisControllerEditor {}
#endif
```

### Local multiplayer

> To use the previous script in a multiplayer environment you will need one `CinemachineBrain` attached on the Player prefab Camera and increase the channel mask of both the `CinemachineCamera` and the `CinemachineBrain`.

Reviewer: Can you elaborate on this line?  I think it needs to be spelled out a little more.  Also, what does one do with the following script?

Author: This doc assumes you are familiar with this setup. In an ideal world I would just reference this page. I am wandering what happens if it get's updated? Maybe you have an idea? 
https://docs.unity3d.com/Packages/com.unity.inputsystem@1.5/manual/PlayerInput.html

```cs
using Unity.Cinemachine;
using UnityEngine;

public class CinemachineCameraSetter : MonoBehaviour
{
    [SerializeField]
    CinemachineBrain m_CinemachineBrain;
    [SerializeField]
    CinemachineCamera m_CinemachineCamera;

    void Start()
    {

>         transform.position = new Vector3(CinemachineCore.Instance.BrainCount, 2, 0);// Increment to the next channel based on the brain count for the CinemachineBrain and the CinemachineCamera.

Author: > Line lengths.
Fixed

> Also this comment does not seem to relate to the current line.
Fixed

> And finally, it might be more readable to make a local variable, e.g.
Fixed

> Also this code might become outdated soon. I have a Jira ticket to refactor the CinemachineLayer thing.
Good to know do you have a suggestion for the doc? Can it be updated on the PR for this change?

> var channel = 1 << CinemachineCore.Instance.BrainCount

        m_CinemachineBrain.ChannelMask = (OutputChannel.Channels) (1 << CinemachineCore.Instance.BrainCount); // Shift one bit per brain Count on the CinemachineCamera.
        m_CinemachineCamera.OutputChannel.Value = (OutputChannel.Channels) (1 << CinemachineCore.Instance.BrainCount); // Shift one bit per brain Count on the CinemachineCamera.
    }
}
```

> Refer to the samples for more information on the recommended setup.

Author: The input system multiplayer but it's in progress. Removing this line and will add it to the sample PR instead.

| __Accel Time__ | The time it takes for the input value to accelerate to a larger value |
| __Decel Time__ | The time it takes for the input value to decelerate to a smaller value |

## Creating your own Input Axis Controller

> In some cases you may need to create your own Input controller. This example shows how to control a Camera with a slider. It can be easily modified to be used with other objects.

Author: Fixed

```cs
using Unity.Cinemachine;
using System;
using UnityEngine;
using UnityEngine.UI;

> // Must implement IInputAxisReader InputAxisControllerBase.

Author: Removed it.

[Serializable]
public class SliderReader : IInputAxisReader 
{
    // Replace this with the type you would like to use
    [SerializeField]
    Slider m_Slider; 

>     public float GetValue(UnityEngine.Object context, int playerIndex, bool autoEnableInput, IInputAxisOwner.AxisDescriptor.Hints hint)

Author: Fixed

    {

>         // The value returned will change the axis value.

Author: I removed the comment.

        if (m_Slider != null)
            return m_Slider.value;
        
        return 0;
    }
}

//The component that you will add to your CinemachineCamera.
public class SliderInputController : InputAxisControllerBase<SliderReader> {} 

// Optional but recommended if want a nice inspector.
#if UNITY_EDITOR
[UnityEditor.CustomEditor(typeof(SliderInputController))]
public class SliderControllerEditor : Unity.Cinemachine.Editor.InputAxisControllerEditor {}
#endif
```

> ## PlayerInput and PlayerInputManager components with Cinemachine

Author: Fixed

> We assume you already know how to setup `PlayerInput` and `PlayerInputManager`. All the documentation can be found on the Input System package documentation page and samples.

Author: I added a bit more context everywhere let me know if it works

### Read from PlayerInput component

You will need a custom InputAxisController that receives axis from the PlayerInput component. Add this script to your CinemachineCamera and assign the `PlayerInput` field. The `behaviour` field must be set to `InvokeCSharpEvents`.

```cs
using UnityEngine;
using Unity.Cinemachine;
using System;
using UnityEngine.InputSystem;

class PlayerInputReceiver : InputAxisControllerBase<SimpleReader>
{
[SerializeField]
private PlayerInput m_PlayerInput;

    private void Awake()
    {
        // Call back when the PlayerInput receives an Input.
        m_PlayerInput.onActionTriggered += OnActionTriggered;
    }

    public void OnActionTriggered(InputAction.CallbackContext value)
    {
        // Sends the Input to all the controllers.

>         foreach (var controller in Controllers)

Author: Fixed

    {
        if(hint == IInputAxisOwner.AxisDescriptor.Hints.X)
            return m_Value.x * 100;
        
        return m_Value.y * 100;
    }
}

#if UNITY_EDITOR
[UnityEditor.CustomEditor(typeof(PlayerInputReceiver))]
public class PlayerInputReceiverEditor : Unity.Cinemachine.Editor.InputAxisControllerEditor {}
#endif
```

### Local multiplayer

To use the previous script in a multiplayer environment you will need one `CinemachineBrain` attached on the Player prefab Camera and increase the channel mask of both the `CinemachineCamera` and the `CinemachineBrain`.

```cs
using Unity.Cinemachine;
using UnityEngine;

public class CinemachineCameraSetter : MonoBehaviour
{
    [SerializeField]
    CinemachineBrain m_CinemachineBrain;
    [SerializeField]
    CinemachineCamera m_CinemachineCamera;

    void Start()
    {
        transform.position = new Vector3(CinemachineCore.Instance.BrainCount, 2, 0);
        
        // Increment to the next channel based on the brain count for the CinemachineBrain and the CinemachineCamera.
        var channel = 1 << CinemachineCore.Instance.BrainCount;

>         // Shift one bit per brain Count on the CinemachineCamera.

Reviewer: Does this comment apply to the _previous_ line?  If so, you should move it.

| __Accel Time__ | The time it takes for the input value to accelerate to a larger value |
| __Decel Time__ | The time it takes for the input value to decelerate to a smaller value |

## Creating your own Input Axis Controller

> The default implementation of `CinemachineInputAxisController` can process input from the Input package and from Unity's legacy input system. In the case where you want your input to come from an other source, you may need to create your own input controller.

Reviewer: What happened to "This example shows how to control a Camera with a slider. It can be easily modified to be used with other objects." ?  That was good, I miss it.

Author: Readed

```cs
using UnityEngine;
using Unity.Cinemachine;
using System;
using UnityEngine.InputSystem;

class PlayerInputReceiver : InputAxisControllerBase<SimpleReader>
{
    [SerializeField]
    PlayerInput m_PlayerInput;

    void Awake()
    {
        // Call back when the PlayerInput receives an Input.
        m_PlayerInput.onActionTriggered += OnActionTriggered;
    }

    public void OnActionTriggered(InputAction.CallbackContext value)
    {
        // Sends the Input to all the controllers.
        for (var i = 0; i < Controllers.Count; i ++)
        {
            Controllers[i].Input.SetValue(value.action);
        }
    }
}

[Serializable]
class SimpleReader : IInputAxisReader
{
    // Assumes the action is a Vector2 for simplicity but can be changed for a float.
    Vector2 m_Value;
    [SerializeField]
    InputActionReference m_Input;
    [SerializeField]

>     float m_Gain;

Reviewer: should init to 1, so input works by default

Author: fixed

    
    public void SetValue(InputAction action)
    {

>         // Is the input referenced in the inspector matches the updated one update the value.

Reviewer: Typo: is should be if

Author: Fixed

        if (m_Input!= null && m_Input.action.id == action.id)
            m_Value = action.ReadValue<Vector2>();
    }

    public float GetValue(UnityEngine.Object context, 
        int playerIndex, 
        bool autoEnableInput, 
        IInputAxisOwner.AxisDescriptor.Hints hint)
    {
        if(hint == IInputAxisOwner.AxisDescriptor.Hints.X)
            return m_Value.x * m_Gain;
        
        return m_Value.y * m_Gain;
    }
}

#if UNITY_EDITOR
[UnityEditor.CustomEditor(typeof(PlayerInputReceiver))]
public class PlayerInputReceiverEditor : Unity.Cinemachine.Editor.InputAxisControllerEditor {}
#endif
```

### Local split screen multiplayer

> In a split screen multiplayer environment using `PlayerInputManager` and `PlayerInput` components you will need one `CinemachineBrain` and one `CinemachineCamera` per player `Camera` and increase the channel mask of both the `CinemachineCamera` and the `CinemachineBrain`.

Reviewer: This is still pretty thin and hard to understand.  I'm going to leave it to @JWalker0007 to help you express this more effectively.

Author: Moved it in the CinemachineBrain.md and referenced it instead. It's a script that could be used in this case but has nothing to do with the Inputs. Maybe that's where the confusion started.
Let me know if it's more clear.

Reviewer: There is already a page for SplitScreen and Multiple Unity Cameras.  I think it would be better there instead of in CinemachineBrain.

```cs
using Unity.Cinemachine;
using UnityEngine;

public class CinemachineCameraSetter : MonoBehaviour
{
    [SerializeField]
    CinemachineBrain m_CinemachineBrain;
    [SerializeField]
    CinemachineCamera m_CinemachineCamera;

    void Start()
    {
        // Places each new player in a line on the X axis.

>         transform.position = new Vector3(CinemachineCore.Instance.BrainCount, 2, 0);

Reviewer: This line seems not relevant to what you're trying to show in this example.

Author: Fixed

| __Accel Time__ | The time it takes for the input value to accelerate to a larger value |
| __Decel Time__ | The time it takes for the input value to decelerate to a smaller value |

## Creating your own Input Axis Controller

The default implementation of `CinemachineInputAxisController` can process input from the Input package and from Unity's legacy input system. In the case where you want your input to come from an other source, you may need to create your own input controller. This example shows how to control a Camera with a slider. It can be easily modified to be used with other objects.

```cs
using Unity.Cinemachine;
using System;
using UnityEngine;
using UnityEngine.UI;

[Serializable]

> public class SliderReader : IInputAxisReader 

Author: It's a convention with interfaces. You must add an I before the name of the class. It can lead to weird cases like that but it's normal and expected to be like that.

{
    // Replace this with the type you would like to use
    [SerializeField]
    Slider m_Slider; 

    public float GetValue(UnityEngine.Object context, 
        int playerIndex, 
        bool autoEnableInput, 

>         IInputAxisOwner.AxisDescriptor.Hints hint)

Author: Same reason it's an interface.

    {
        if (m_Slider != null)
            return m_Slider.value;
        
        return 0;
    }
}

//The component that you will add to your CinemachineCamera.
public class SliderInputController : InputAxisControllerBase<SliderReader> {} 

// Optional but recommended to display a nice inspector.
#if UNITY_EDITOR
[UnityEditor.CustomEditor(typeof(SliderInputController))]
public class SliderControllerEditor : Unity.Cinemachine.Editor.InputAxisControllerEditor {}
#endif
```

> See also [Input System Components](InputSystemComponents.md) if you need to setup a local multiplayer input with the Input System package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [Input System Components](InputSystemComponents.md) documentation if you need to setup a local multiplayer input with the Input System package.
```
